README.md, before:

# Srijan - 2020

Progress of content.

## Articles


| S. No | Name                                      | Editor Assigned |  Status/ Comments | Conclusion|
|------ |-------------------------------------------|---------------- |---------|-----------|
|1.     |Mind Design-Merging with AI                | Kajal Gupta     | on hold |  TBD |
|2.     |The Rise of Quantum Supremacy              | Arpita Saggar   |Reviewed | Yes |
|3.     |Blockchain - Beyond the buzzword           | Kajal Gupta     |Reviewed| Yes|
|4.     |The Dynamics of Molecular Machine Learning | Kajal Gupta     |Reviewed |  Yes|
|5.     |3D Stacking                                | Swati Gautam    | Edit in progress  |  ||
|6.     |How torrent works                          | Diksha Gupta    | |     ||
|7.     |AI Rush                                    | Arpita Saggar   | on hold | TBD|
|8.     |Security in the Modern World               | Arpita Saggar   |Conclusion required ||
|9.     | IPFS                                      | Swati Gautam    | Reviewed |Yes|
|10.    |Ethics and AI                              | Swati Gautam    |  Reviewed    |Yes|
|11.    |Computing at the egde                      | Arpita Saggar   | Reviewed| Yes|
|12.    |Explainable Artificial Intelligence        | Kajal Gupta     |Reviewed| Yes| 
|13.    |Reshaping internet access                  | Arpita Saggar   | ||
|14.    |Uber's Rating System                       | Kajal Gupta     | |No|
|15.    |Into the Decade with 5G                    | Diksha Gupta/Swati| Edit in Progress| |     ||
|16.    |Reinforcement Learning Agents              | Arpita Saggar   | Review Requested ||
|17.    |Ambient Voice Technology in Healthcare     | Kajal Gupta     | review requested||
|18.    |Mobile Phone Sensing                       | Diksha GUpta               |      ||
|19.    |Firebase                                   |    -            |  -    |No|
---

## Other content

| S. No | Title                     | Editor(s) assigned | Status |
| ----  | ------------------------- | ------------------ | ------ |
| 1     | Index / Order of articles | TBD                | -      |
| 2     | Foreword                  | TBD                | -      |
| 3     | About Srijan              | TBD                | -      |

---

Commit message:

add article A bried on Big Data and its relation to well being

README.md, after:

# Srijan - 2020

Progress of content.

## Articles


| S. No | Name                                      | Editor Assigned |  Status/ Comments | Conclusion|
|------ |-------------------------------------------|---------------- |---------|-----------|
|1.     |Mind Design-Merging with AI                | Kajal Gupta     | on hold |  TBD |
|2.     |The Rise of Quantum Supremacy              | Arpita Saggar   |Reviewed | Yes |
|3.     |Blockchain - Beyond the buzzword           | Kajal Gupta     |Reviewed| Yes|
|4.     |The Dynamics of Molecular Machine Learning | Kajal Gupta     |Reviewed |  Yes|
|5.     |3D Stacking                                | Swati Gautam    | Edit in progress  |  ||
|6.     |How torrent works                          | Diksha Gupta    | |     ||
|7.     |AI Rush                                    | Arpita Saggar   | on hold | TBD|
|8.     |Security in the Modern World               | Arpita Saggar   |Conclusion required ||
|9.     | IPFS                                      | Swati Gautam    | Reviewed |Yes|
|10.    |Ethics and AI                              | Swati Gautam    |  Reviewed    |Yes|
|11.    |Computing at the egde                      | Arpita Saggar   | Reviewed| Yes|
|12.    |Explainable Artificial Intelligence        | Kajal Gupta     |Reviewed| Yes| 
|13.    |Reshaping internet access                  | Arpita Saggar   | ||
|14.    |Uber's Rating System                       | Kajal Gupta     | |No|
|15.    |Into the Decade with 5G                    | Diksha Gupta/Swati| Edit in Progress| |     ||
|16.    |Reinforcement Learning Agents              | Arpita Saggar   | Review Requested ||
|17.    |Ambient Voice Technology in Healthcare     | Kajal Gupta     | review requested||
|18.    |Mobile Phone Sensing                       | Diksha GUpta               |      ||
|19.    |Firebase                                   |    -            |  -    |No|
|20.    |A brief on Big Data and its relation to wellbeing.| Kajal Gupta|  | | |
---

## Other content

| S. No | Title                     | Editor(s) assigned | Status |
| ----  | ------------------------- | ------------------ | ------ |
| 1     | Index / Order of articles | TBD                | -      |
| 2     | Foreword                  | TBD                | -      |
| 3     | About Srijan              | TBD                | -      |

---
