
## Mobile Phone CrowdSensing – A resource for Contextualized urban smart cities

---
| Field | Value |
|----|----|
| Writer | Ronak Aggarwal - MSc II yr|
| Editor |  |
| Status |  |
| Plagiarism| 3% [Report](./plag-reports/plag-mobile-phone-sensing.pdf) |


---
 
 We are 21st-century citizens, doing our very, very best to interact with 19th century-designed institutions that are based on an Information technology of the 15th century », PiaMancini, 2014.
 High  rise  of  urban  population  and  advancement  in  technology  demands  the  need  for  smart  urban  cities. Smart  city is making smart solutions using  information  and  communication  technologies  (ICT). Smart cities use a combination of  software solutions, Internet of Things (IoT) devices and user interfaces.
 How IoT is useful in making cities smarter? 
 IoT devices are a network  of connected devices –such as vehicles, sensors or home appliances.The  way  interaction  between  Web  Pages  (WWW) is  Internet  of  Content, interaction  between people (Social Media) is Internet of People, interaction between devices(or things) is Internet of Things. Here thing can be anything like machines, home appliances, cars, sensors, trash cans etc. Smart  city  concept  uses  IoT  technologies  with the aim  of making  better  use  of  public resources, reducing the  operational  cost  of  public  administrations,  creating  new  opportunities and supporting better living. 
 How Mobile phone sensors are helpful?
 In  the  last  few  years, Mobile  phones, appliances, vehicles, and  other  types  of  devices  have sensors in them. On the good side, world is getting interconnected everyday by these sensors. A  mobile  device  is  used  on  daily  basis  with a  high  frequency.  There  can  be  various  types  of sensors installed on a mobile device, from accelerometer to gesture recognition sensors.A US based study reveals that share of  adults who owned smart phones increased from 35% to 85%  in urban  areas,  this  huge  increment  in  usage  of  smart  phone  powers  up  the  concept  of Mobile  CrowdSensing. In  this  article,  we  briefly  explain  how it is useful  in  context  of  urban smart cities:The users  who  uses  a  smartphone uses  Mobile  Crowd  Sensing  (MCS) as  a  new  path of the Internet of Things. It takes the advantage of certain smartphone features such as  Camera,  temperature,  GPS,and  microphone  to  collect data  from  the  environment.  We  first take a look at Pollution sensing and social sensing. In pollution monitoring usecase, sensors are installed at fixed place;they continuously sense the movement  of  vehicles  and  other  polluting  things  around  them.  This  is  called  Fixed  Sensing. Sensors are in place, so they provide very accurate results but with high cost.
Coming to social sensing,Facebook, LinkedIn, Google+ and similar social networks has led to  increment  in awareness  of  the  power  of social  elements  into  a  variety  of  data-centric applications. Embedding  sensors  in  these  social  networks  to  collect  large  amount  of  data  for prediction  and  monitoring  applications  is  a  natural  way  to enhance  the  power  of  such  social. Social sensing is qualitative but subjective. In Mobile Crowd sensing, there is huge number of sensors, the location  of sensors is not fixed. These sensors have relatively low accuracy as compared to pollution and social monitors. These sensors  are  used  to  acquire  data  about  the  user. The  acquired  data  can  be  used  in  several applications  such  as determining mental  health, overall  wellness  monitoring,  noise  monitoring, and eating habits of community.
Research  Question: Is  mobile  phone  sensing  an  effective  solution  to  the  aggregation  of urban knowledge?
Urban  Scale crowd  sensing is use of mobile devices by a  large  number  of  individuals to extract certain phenomenon  of  interest. An experiment was done in France where Ambiciti application was used for urban scale experiment, which notifies the collective exposure to urban pollution, air and noises both. It notifies the user of  overall  exposure  to  pollution. A  user  gets  notified  whenever  he  or  she  uses  loud  voice. It suggests the user of alternate route options with comparatively less pollution than more polluted ones.There are certain factors that affect efficient crowdsensing solutions in Ambiciti such as Battery Usage is critical factor on smartphones; Mobile OS is to be optimized for normal usage, but there are some  OS  limitations  such  as  background  and  sleep  mode,  access  to  sensors  and  network interfaces and accuracy of locations.There are certain challenges that obstruct the mobile crowd sensing such as: Some users do not wish to share their information, someone can send fake data and redundancy in results.
In Conclusion, Mobile crowd sensing represents a very promising approach for mobilization of citizens in order to improve and adapt their urban mobility.Crowd sourcing dynamic geographic information has potential to improve various aspects of urban life and urban mobility. We focus on probably the most prominent domains such as traffic,  air quality and  citizen activities on the move that have the great impact on mobility and city dynamics. 
When Crowd Sensor meets the infrastructure IoT: Crowd Sensing has emerged as a powerful solution  to  address  environmental  monitoring,  allowing us to  control  air pollution  levels  in crowded urban areas in a distributed, collaborative, inexpensive and accurate manner. Currently a lot of research is going on in this field and this would come out to be a game changing field in context of urban smart cities.
